(DOCS-3381) DBM Architecture page (#13869)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/database_monitoring/architecture.md

Instructions for setting up Database Monitoring with a self-hosted provider:

* [Postgres][4]
* [MySQL][5]

#### Cloud-managed

If your setup is cloud-managed (with providers such as [AWS RDS][6] or Aurora, Google Cloud SQL, or Azure), you install the Agent on a separate host and configure it to connect to each managed instance.

Database Monitoring collects system metrics such as CPU, memory, disk usage, logs, and related telemetry directly from the cloud provider using the Datadog integration with that provider.

{{< img src="database_monitoring/dbm_architecture_cloud-hosted.png" alt="The database instance is separate from the Agent host, which is separate from the Datadog backend. The cloud API connects to the Datadog AWS integration through the internet." style="width:70%;">}}

You can install the Agent on any cloud VM (for example, EC2) provided it can connect to your database instances.

If you are not running your own Kubernetes cluster, Datadog recommends using your cloud provider’s orchestration tools. For example, you can use [AWS ECS][7] to host the Datadog Agent, as [the Agent already exists as a Docker container][8].

> #### Kubernetes

Author: ```suggestion
### Kubernetes
```

---
title: DBM Setup Architectures
kind: documentation
description: Learn about Database Monitoring and get started
further_reading:
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/database-performance-monitoring-datadog"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Monitor and visualize database performance"
- link: "/database_monitoring/data_collected/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Data Collected"
- link: "/database_monitoring/troubleshooting/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Troubleshooting"

---

## Overview

The steps required for setting up Database Monitoring in Datadog varies based on the type of Database you're using (Postgres, MySQL, SQL Server), and the host provider (self-hosted, AWS, Google Cloud SQL, or Azure). No matter which database or host provider you use, to be able to use Database Monitoring for your Databases, you need the following:

* [A Datadog Agent][1]
* Host for your Datadog Agent
* Read-only access for your databases

> ### Agent

Author: ```suggestion
## Agent
```

The Datadog Agent is lightweight software that monitors system metrics such as CPU, Memory, and Network. It also connects to the Database as a SQL user. For self-hosted Databases, you can install the agent directly onto the host that is hosting your Database. For cloud-managed databases such as AWS RDS and Azure SQL, the Agent should be configured to connect to these databases remotely.

> ### Host

Author: ```suggestion
```

#### Self-hosted

{{< img src="database_monitoring/dbm_architecture_self-hosted.png" alt="Some really good alt text" style="width:70%;">}}

In a self-hosted setup, the Datadog Agent is used to collect system metrics from the OS host, database metrics directly from the database, as well as database logs.

* [System metrics collected on Postgres][2]
* [System metrics collected on MySQL][3]

For self-hosted setups, you should install the Agent directly onto the database host so that you have full visibility into the health of your system running the database process.

You need to grant the Agent read-only access to your database, as well as set up the integration configurations. The Agent needs to be able to login as a user to be able to run read-only queries on your database.

Instructions for setting up Database Monitoring with a self-hosted provider:

* [Postgres][4]
* [MySQL][5]

#### Cloud-managed

> If your setup is cloud-managed (i.e. [AWS RDS][6] or Aurora, Google Cloud SQL, or Azure), the Agent must be installed remotely on a separate host and configured to connect to each managed instance.

Author: ```suggestion
If your setup is cloud-managed (with providers such as [AWS RDS][6] or Aurora, Google Cloud SQL, or Azure), the Agent must be installed remotely on a separate host and configured to connect to each managed instance.
```

Database monitoring collects system metrics such as CPU, memory, disk usage, logs, and related telemetry directly from the cloud provider using our integration.

{{< img src="database_monitoring/dbm_architecture_cloud-hosted.png" alt="The database instance is separate from the agent host, which is separate from the Datadog backend. The Cloud API connects directly to the Datadog AWS integration through the internet." style="width:70%;">}}

You can install the Agent on any cloud VM (for example, EC2) as long as it can connect to your database instance(s).

If you are not running your own Kubernetes cluster, Datadog recommends using your cloud provider’s orchestration tools. For example, you can use [AWS ECS][7] to host the Datadog Agent, as [the Agent already exists as a Docker container][8].

> ##### Kubernetes

Author: ```suggestion
#### Kubernetes
```

If you’re already running your apps on [Kubernetes][9], Datadog recommends using the [Datadog Cluster Agent with Database Monitoring][10], as this allows you to run [cluster checks][11] across your pods.

{{< img src="database_monitoring/dbm_architecture_clusters.png" alt="Some really good alt text" style="width:70%;">}}

> Using the [Cluster Agent][12] is preferred because it distributes the Database instances across a pool of agents for you. This ensures that only one instance of each check runs as opposed to each node-based Agent pod running this corresponding check. The Cluster Agent holds the configurations and dynamically dispatches them to node-based Agents. The Agents on each node connect to the Cluster Agent every 10 seconds and retrieve the configurations to run. If an Agent stops reporting, the Cluster Agent removes it from the active pool and dispatches the configurations to other Agents. This ensures one (and only one) instance always runs even as nodes are added and removed from the cluster. This becomes important when you have a large number of Database instances so that the Cluster Agent can spread out the cluster checks across the different nodes.

Author: ```suggestion
Using the [Cluster Agent][12] is preferred because it distributes the Database instances across a pool of agents for you. This ensures that only one instance of each check runs, as opposed to each node-based Agent pod running this corresponding check. The Cluster Agent holds the configurations and dynamically dispatches them to node-based Agents. The Agents on each node connect to the Cluster Agent every 10 seconds and retrieve the configurations to run. If an Agent stops reporting, the Cluster Agent removes it from the active pool and dispatches the configurations to other Agents. This ensures one (and only one) instance always runs even as nodes are added and removed from the cluster. This becomes important when you have a large number of Database instances so that the Cluster Agent can spread out the cluster checks across the different nodes.
```

##### Aurora

> If you’re using [Aurora][13], the Agent needs to be connected to the individual Aurora instance (not the cluster endpoint) because the Agent must connect directly to the host being monitored.

Author: ```suggestion
If you are using [Aurora][13], the Agent needs to be connected to the individual Aurora instance (not the cluster endpoint) because the Agent must connect directly to the host being monitored.
```
